How VCFloat became LGPL licensed instead of GPL licensed: a History

VCFloat, a Coq Framework for verifying floating-point computations,
was originally developed by researchers at Reservoir Labs Inc.
It was copyright (C) 2015 Reservoir Labs Inc., made open-source
under the Gnu Public License (GPL), and published in a github repo.

In 2021 and 2022, Andrew Appel and Ariel Kellison made contributions
to the github repo, which were also (therefore) GPL Licensed.

In 2022, Reservoir Labs Inc. was acquired by Qualcomm.  Qualcomm determined
that this was not an open-source project that they wanted to continue
to maintain.  Since Andrew Appel was interested in maintaining and improving
VCFloat, Qualcomm generously decided to transfer all its copyright ownership
in VCFloat to Andrew Appel, which was done by contract in June 2022.

The maintainers of a GPL-licensed repository cannot simply change the license
to some other license, even LGPL, unless every one of the copyright owners agrees.
In July 2022, "every one of the copyright owners" was Andrew Appel and Ariel Kellison.
On 10 July 2022, those owners hereby license their copyrighted software under the LGPL.

We welcome contributions by others to VCFloat, which will continue to be LGPL licensed.

Below, for historical purposes, we reproduce the license agreement as it stood
in June 2022.

--------------OLD, OBSOLETE LICENSE FOLLOWS---------------------------

VCFloat: A Unified Coq Framework for Verifying C Programs with
Floating-Point Computations. Application to SAR Backprojection.

Copyright (C) 2015 Reservoir Labs Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021-22  Andrew W. Appel and Ariel Kellison

This software and each of its files are free software. You can
redistribute them and/or modify them under the terms of the GNU
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation,
either version 3 of the License (GNU GPL v3), or (at your option) any
later version.  A verbatim copy of the GNU GPL v3 is included in
gpl-3.0.txt.

This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU GPL
v3 (and CeCILL-C for patches/interval.patch) for more details.

This work was sponsored in part by DARPA MTO as part of the Power
Efficiency Revolution for Embedded Computing Technologies (PERFECT)
program (issued by DARPA/CMO under Contract No: HR0011-12-C-0123). The
views and conclusions contained in this work are those of the authors
and should not be interpreted as representing the official policies,
either expressly or implied, of the DARPA or the
U.S. Government. Distribution Statement "A" (Approved for Public
Release, Distribution Unlimited.)


If you are using or modifying VCFloat in your work, please consider
citing the following paper:

Tahina Ramananandro, Paul Mountcastle, Benoit Meister and Richard
Lethin.
A Unified Coq Framework for Verifying C Programs with Floating-Point
Computations.
In CPP (5th ACM/SIGPLAN conference on Certified Programs and Proofs)
2016.

VCFloat requires uses third-party libraries listed in ACKS, which
have various licenses of their own.
